---
layout: article
title: CFI Summer School 2019-20
modified:
category: sessions
year: "2019-20"
excerpt: "The sessions will be conducted by the club heads and coordinators (who have good knowledge in respective topics). Some clubs have invited industry members, working on the concerned fields as guest speakers for a few sessions, for instance 3DP club and iGEM. The organising team will also suggest suitable material to explore more on the topics."
tags: []
image:
  feature: blog2.jpeg
  teaser: blog2.jpeg
  thumb:
imageurl: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1555066931-4365d14bab8c?ixid=MnwxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8&ixlib=rb-1.2.1&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1000&q=80"
---


## Problem statement

The problem statement is to ensure that people who are hard of hearing can be helped in some way, by allowing them to be alerted by sounds in spite of not being able to hear. Once our basic product is made, we can expand it to include other features.

## Ideation and planning

**Flow of work:**
- Overall, we need to keep the problem statement in mind as well as the viewpoint of our target market while ideating on the product. Basically, I think that as we have a very defined problem statement, our next step is to analyse our target market and try and always keep the target market's viewpoint in mind while further ideating on the design and moving on to the prototyping stage.
- Once the market is analysed enough, we should analyse each of the ideas we came up with regarding the design and execution of the product, and see if it is feasible and matches with the needs of our target market. 

**Ideation:**
- We could probably aim to make a sort of pair of smart glasses that has really small microphones in the handles/frames of the glasses. We can provide multiple microphones in different places to capture multi-dimensional inputs.
- Besides this, for it to be effective, the screen of the glasses should be made into LCD displays to glow in specific regions when a sound is heard from a particular direction.

**Specific components:**

1. **MEMS microphone module**: 
- While creating our prototype, we can use this module to try and allow for directional sensing of sound and create an output on an LED screen depending on the direction. This initial prototype could later be integrated into the product with an appropriate design.
- We'll have to make sure we collect directional data appropriately so that it can detect which direction the appropriate frequencies are coming from and amplify those appropriately.

2. **LCD display**:
- An appropriate display will need to be used whether we are using the Google glasses smartglass model, or instead making the glasses themselves the screen. We can start off by lighting up the LCD in various places depending on the location of the sound.

